the two words that best describe team
defense are hard work
if each defensive player does his job
defense should be no more than
one-on-one play times 5 play in the
defensive zone is the most critical of
the three zones a mistake here often
results in an opponent's goal the
primary objective of the defensive team
is to prevent good scoring chances and
regain possession of the puck so a
transition to offense can occur there
are three basic conditions that the
defense must be prepared to control
one-on-one situations more offensive
players than defensive players
two-on-one never become outnumbered at
the puck the defensive players should
try to gain time so that a teammate can
get back to help or he should force the
shooter or puck carrier to a bad
shooting angle more defensive players
that offensive players one on two one on
two is a good opportunity for one
defender to play the puck carrier while
the other player takes the puck in order
to accomplish these principles it is
typical for the defenseman to play the
puck carrier in the corner and the
center to play a support role download
this is called the strong side or puck
side because the puck is on that side of
the ice the defending forward on the
strong side plays in the faceoff circle
and is responsible for eliminating the
pass out to the attacking defenseman or
preventing the defenseman from getting a
shot on goal the side away from the puck
is called the weak side and the weak
side forward is responsible for the area
in the middle of the ice known as the
high slump and for preventing the
attacking defenseman in the middle of
the ice from getting a shot on goal when
the puck moves to the other side of the
ice either low behind the net or high
from defenseman to defenseman the
players must shift from one side of the
ice to the other
and switch coverage